# Model Documentation

1. The speed limit of the car is 49.5 mph, and acceleration is limited to 0.224 to avoid jerk.
2. We assume that the car start at middle lane(main.cpp 53).
3. Instead of using the Frenet coordinates on tightly spaced points, only three widely spaced Frenet points are using with dynamic d based on the desired lane(mentioned as 0,1,2 ) and with s values spaced 30m (main.cpp 311-313). This way the car's projected path is nice and smooth and doesnt experience any max acceleration or jerk values. In order to make sure the car could speed up and slow down at a constant acceleration that was less than 10 m/s^2, the reference velocity was always incremented or decremented by some constant value that resulted in plus or minus 5 m/s^2 (car_speed/2.24) (main.cpp 138/141) . Inorder for the ego vehicle to travel at the reference velocity the spline needed to be split into evenly spaced points, where the car would transverse to each point every .02 seconds. To do this the three anchor points where converted to the local vehicle coordinate space where the math was easier to use, and then spline could be linearly approximated with its distance and then the number of spaces could be calculated (main.cpp 358).
4. If there wasnt any cars in front of the ego vehicle then the reference speed was 49.5 MPH, chosen so it was just slightly under the speed limit, otherwise the car would start slowing down and also try to see if it can change lanes. The sensor fusion data allowed the ego vehicle to see all the other traffic cars on the road, each traffic car's Frenet values were used to see if it was in the same lane as the car and then how close it was to the ego vehicle (main.cpp 123-136).
5. The lane change logic was quite simple, if there was a car in front of the ego vehicle then it would see if it was safe to change to a empty lane, If all lanes are jammed, take the lane with the overall fastest cars.
7. A possible improvement would be for example an optimized environment model which calculates with the dynamic behavior of the environment, as well as a state machine with which the changes of the tracks can be planned more optimized.